{\rtf1\ansi
{\b\fs36 Day 1 - What is Programming and Python?}\par
\par
{\b\fs28 What is Programming}\par
Programming is a way for us to tell computers what to do. Computer is a very dumb machine and it only does what we tell it to do. Hence we learn programming and tell computers to do what we are very slow at - computation. If I ask you to calculate 5+6, you will immediately say 11. How about 23453453 X 56456?\par
\par
You will start searching for a calculator or jump to a new tab to calculate the same. This 100 days of code series will help you learn python from starting to the end. We will start from 0 and by the time we end this course, I promise you will be a Job ready Python developer!\par
\par
{\b What is Python?}\par
Python is a dynamically typed, general purpose programming language that supports an object-oriented programming approach as well as a functional programming approach.\par
Python is an interpreted and a high-level programming language.\par
It was created by Guido Van Rossum in 1989.\par
\par
{\b Features of Python}\par
{\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\bullet\tab}Python is simple and easy to understand.\par
{\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\bullet\tab}It is Interpreted and platform-independent which makes debugging very easy.\par
{\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\bullet\tab}Python is an open-source programming language.\par
{\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\bullet\tab}Python provides very big library support. Some of the popular libraries include NumPy, Tensorflow, Selenium, OpenCV, etc.\par
{\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\bullet\tab}It is possible to integrate other programming languages within python.\par
\par
{\b What is Python used for}\par
{\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\bullet\tab}Python is used in Data Visualization to create plots and graphical representations.\par
{\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\bullet\tab}Python helps in Data Analytics to analyze and understand raw data for insights and trends.\par
{\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\bullet\tab}It is used in AI and Machine Learning to simulate human behavior and to learn from past data without hard coding.\par
{\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\bullet\tab}It is used to create web applications.\par
{\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\bullet\tab}It can be used to handle databases.\par
{\listtext\pard\plain\ltrpar\fi-360\li720\tx720\bullet\tab}It is used in business and accounting to perform complex mathematical operations along with quantitative and qualitative analysis.\par
\par
{\b Why Replit?}\par
Replit is very easy to share tutorials and code.\par
You can easily fork this repl and continue learning in your own style. Video, code as well as text tutorial on the same page which makes things easy!\par
For fellow teachers out there, you create a .tutorial folder to create tutorials using replit.\par
\par
{\b Next Lesson>>}\par
}
